This Veterans Health Administration (VHA) directive designates the National Center for Health Promotion and Disease Prevention (NCP) as the VHA office responsible for guidance and coordination of weight management services for Veterans within VHA. It also specifies the core program implementation and reporting requirements for MOVE! Weight Management Program for Veterans (MOVE!), VHA’s evidence-based, interdisciplinary behavioral weight management programming available at each Department of Veterans Affairs (VA) medical center to Veterans receiving care at VA medical facilities and outpatient sites of care. AUTHORITY: Title 38 United States Code (U.S.C.) 7318.   2. BACKGROUND a. The VHA National Center for Health Promotion and Disease Prevention (NCP), located in Durham, North Carolina, was established in 1995 as a field-based unit of VA Central Office within the Office of Patient Care Services (PCS) to implement the Veterans Health Care Act of 1992, Public Law No. 102-585, § 511, 106 Stat. 4943, 4955-57 codified at 38 U.S.C. 7318, which mandates NCP to: (1) Provide a central office for monitoring and encouraging the activities of VHA with respect to the provision, evaluation, and improvement of preventive health services; and  (2) Promote the expansion and improvement of clinical, research and education activities of VHA with respect to such services.   b. Many diseases that cause disability and death among Veterans can be prevented, mitigated, or delayed. Preventive services can lead to longer and healthier lives, reduce hospitalizations, preserve functioning, and enhance patient satisfaction and quality of life. Effective preventive services are available for the leading causes of death and morbidity. The main behavioral factors contributing to preventable diseases are tobacco use, physical inactivity, unhealthy diet, and unhealthy alcohol use. Unhealthy eating practices and physical inactivity contribute significantly to overweight and obesity. Key interventions to reduce health risks include system-, provider-, and patient-level strategies that assist patients in changing unhealthy behaviors and adopting healthier ones.  c. The prevalence of overweight/obesity in the Veteran population, as in the general population, has continued to increase over the past several decades. The prevalence of obesity-associated conditions, such as diabetes, heart disease, and sleep apnea, also continues to rise. In fiscal year 2016, an estimated 79 percent of Veterans r
This Veterans Health Administration (VHA) directive establishes the policy and responsibilities related to permitting full practice authority (FPA) of three roles of advanced practice nurses (APRN) when they are acting within the scope of their VA employment: Certified Nurse Practitioners (CNP), Clinical Nurse Specialists (CNS), and Certified Nurse-Midwife (CNM). This directive covers only those roles covered by 38 CFR 17.415. Thus, the APRN role of Certified Registered Nurse Anesthetist (CRNA) is not covered by this directive. : 38 U.S.C. §§ 7304, 7401 through 7464, and 38 CFR 17.415.
This Veterans Health Administration (VHA) Directive provides policy for management, reporting, and analysis of the reasons that medical care and services provided are not billable to third-party payers (TPP) under the Medical Care Collections Fund (MCCF) Revenue Program. AUTHORITY: 38 U.S.C. 1729, 1729A, 1729B, 38 CFR 17.101. 2. BACKGROUND: a. The VHA Revenue Program contributes directly to the President’s budget by providing funds for direct medical care through billing and collecting from TPPs for non-service connected care. The Reasons Not Billable Report was originally developed to document why VHA was not able to bill TPPs for medical care and related services such as: (1) Service-related care including but not limited to: service-connected disabilities, ionizing radiation, combat Veteran, and military sexual trauma; (2) Non-service-related issues including but not limited to: no medical necessity, duplicate encounters, or non-billable appointment(s), provider(s), or clinic(s); (3) The patient is not insured, or specific services rendered are not covered due to limitations of the patient's insurance policy(ies); and (4) Non-billing issues including but not limited to: documentation, coding, credentialing, and other “non” billing issues.